We have seen various modifiers or flags so far.
Now let's understand the slash.
Why are sticky modifier or sticky flag?
So before we understand this flag, there are a few important points we need to discuss.
I will begin with the XY method first.
This is a kind of method which performs a search and called on the regular expression pattern.
For example, let's declare a string where I have some value here.
Now I'm going to define another variable which will contain the pattern.
The pattern I want to search the world.
I want to search is OTI.
So I'm going to put forward slashes.
And in between I write this word.
Now let's try to print this.
I'll say pattern dot xy and inside that we are going to pass the string.
Now, when we run this, you see that the output is oti and index one that is on the first index.
Oti word is found because the search started from this string.
The zeroth index contains n first index is oh two is t, and so on.
In the above code oti actually occurs more than once.
Of course we can put a loop for the string and we can search till the end.
But at the moment let's add one more XY method which will actually search for the next occurrence of
the word OTI.
So I'm going to add console.log again.
And of course I'm running the I'm executing the XY method one more time.
So I'll say pattern dot xy and the string.
Let's run the code.
As you can see in the second line, it says index one.
This means the search is not for the entire string.
So how do we notify?
You already know as there is a modifier called slash G which does the global search.
So let's add slash G and run the code again.
Now you see the output.
In the first case, it says index one.
Now, in the second case it says index nine, Y nine, because the second O.T. is on the ninth index
because we want to search all the odds existing.
As mentioned earlier, we can put a loop or here for this score.
Let me add to more XY method so I'll say console.log execute the method again, the XY method.
This means now that XY will search in the string four times.
Of course it will begin with the zeroth index and it'll go till the very end of the string.
Now, as you can see, the output that in the first case it says one that means on the first index or
T was found, then on the ninth index or again found.
And then the last found is on index number 29.
After that it returns null.
So for this last XY, the output is null because there is no more or T word to be searched in this string.
So now we are executing the XY four times and oti x three times.
So for the last console.log log the output is null.
So this is the purpose of the XY method.
Now let's try to understand one more property.
The property name is last index property.
Now because we add slash g that is global search.
Every time you run XY, it will search from the next position.
For example, the world was searched on one that means zero one and two.
So one and two characters are searched and displayed.
So the next search will begin from index number three.
The next search of XY will begin from index number nine.
Ten is the word.
So from 11th, the next search will start.
The last index property returns the index from which the next search will begin.
Let's try to display a pattern dot last index before every FCC call.
As I've just mentioned that the last index will display from which position the search will begin.
Let's run this and you will realize this.
As you can see from zero eight index, the search is going to begin.
Then the HCC is executed.
As you can see, the first last index value is zero.
It means the search will begin from that position after the FCC call because the first order is searched
and now it should begin with third position.
The next last index returns three.
And this goes on till the last word is found.
Last index also allows to change the beginning of search.
For example, let's begin the search from index number three.
So what will I do in the same code?
I will add pattern dot last index is equal to three.
This will set last indexes three.
It means search will begin from index three and not from the zeroth index.
Now you see that the first string searched was at index nine, then 11.
31 and then it surged from index zero.
So last index is a property which can also decide from which position you want to search when the XY
is executed.
We have seen XY last index.
One more pattern I want to explain before we go to the sticky flag.
And that pattern is slash w when you write slash w plus it means this pattern searches for words in
a string.
For example, in the very same code, let's just say pattern is equal to W plus.
And of course we need to have a global search.
Let's run this.
As you can see that if I have redone X method three times, it returns a word every time the XY is executed.
Every time XY is called, it will search for a new word in the string because the regular expression
pattern given is slash w plus and of course slash g modifier as well.
If modifier G was not there, it would have returned a single word and stopped searching.
Now we know sufficient prerequisite to understand the example of flag or modifier slash why we will
change the previous example to understand it.
Here.
I'm using last index to change the index of search.
So let's say I have this string.
I'm going to say the pattern W plus slash G.
The only line I'm adding here is I'll say pattern.
Last index is equal to three.
Let's try to console that log.
As you can see, because the search started at position three due to pattern last index is equal to
three statement.
The output is easy, which is the next word from position three.
But the important point is on index three.
There isn't any word.
It is a space.
This means the search actually did not start with exact position.
If it was started on the exact position then it would have been null.
Assume that you want to give an instruction to the core that it should consider the exact position.
Then you use the sticky flag that is slash y.
So let's add slash y in the code and run it again.
Now you can see the output is null because we have given that the search should begin on index number
three.
And we also expect that a word should be searched.
But if there is no word in the previous example, it started from the fourth position and it displayed
the word.
But here when you say slash y, it means if there is no word on the position three, it returns null
just to check it does a search word starting from exact position.
Let's change the last index to four where there is a word existing and run the code.
Now you see that it returns the word easy.
And of course, this wire must be easy now for you to understand as well.
So to conclude, we use slash Y when we want that the search should begin from the exact position.
This modifier is newly introduced and does not work in all the browsers at the time of creating this
tutorial.